README.md, before:

# MSX/MSX2/MSX2+ Project Template for Assembly Programming

This is a simple project template for creating a program on a [MSX][msxwiki] cartridge.

Find more informations about MSX cartridges on the [MSX Wiki][cartwiki].

Here is the list of tools you need to use this repository:

* [make][make]
* [wla-dx][wladx]
* [Python][py]

## Usage

Simple use `git` to clone this repository:

```Bash
git clone https://github.com/georgjz/msx-cart-project-template.git msxcart
cd msxcart
make
```

This will create a ROM file called `demo.rom` in the `build/` directory. You can load this ROM into a MSX emulator. You can change the ROM file name by modifying line 6 of the Makefile.

The resulting ROM file will be a simple 16KB ROM. To change this, modify `src/include/MemoryMap.inc` to fit your needs.

The Makefile will assemble all source files placed in the `src/` directory. Source files can be placed at arbitrary directory depth in `src/`.

It will also automatically add all files that end with `*.inc` to the assembler's include file list. For example, if you move `src/include/MemoryMap.inc` to `src/others/include/MemoryMap.inc`, it will still work (there is a small issue; see below).

After all source files are assembled by wla-z80, a simple Python script called `genmemmap.py` will generate a linker script `MemoryMap.cfg` for the linker wlalink to use.

## Example Code

The example code is very simple at the moment. I plan to add something a bit more complex in the future. The code in `src/Main.s` will simply call the `BEEP` (`$00c0`) function from the [MSX BIOS][msxbios].

## Known Issues

The way the Makefile works, it will only detect changes to source files (ending with `*.s`), but not to include files (ending with `*.inc`).

So if you update only include files, you'll need to touch any of the source files (e.g., `touch src/Main.s`), that uses the said include file.

Alternatively, you can simply clean the project and rebuild it completely with `make clean && make`.

## Resources and Links

Here's a list of useful links to resources about MSX programming:

* The [MSX Wiki][msxwiki] has tons of informations, down to the memory maps of individual MSX machines.
* [Néstor Soriano aka Konamiman][konamiman] has several repositories relating to MSX and Z80 programming, including this [excellent MSX2 Technical Handbook][msxoverview] how the MSX works.
* A complete list of all the [functions in the MSX BIOS][msxbios].

[msxwiki]: https://www.msx.org/wiki/
[msxbios]: http://map.grauw.nl/resources/msxbios.php
[konamiman]: https://github.com/Konamiman
[msxoverview]: https://github.com/Konamiman/MSX2-Technical-Handbook
[make]: https://www.gnu.org/software/make/
[wladx]: http://www.villehelin.com/wla.html
[py]: https://www.python.org

Commit message:

Add dummy CMake files
Add basic CMake structure

Add Link File Generator

Add working Haskell Link File Generator

Working build process

Clean up CMake files, remove unnecessary files

Update LICENSE and README
Fix small typos and delete old code

README.md, after:

# MSX/MSX2/MSX2+ Project Template for Assembly Programming

This is a simple project template for creating a program on a [MSX][msxwiki] cartridge.

Find more informations about MSX cartridges on the [MSX Wiki][cartwiki].

Here is the list of tools you need to use this repository:

* [CMake][cmake]
* [make][make]
* [wla-dx][wladx]
* [Glasgow Haskell Compiler][ghc]

## Usage

Simple use `git` to clone this repository:

```Bash
git clone https://github.com/georgjz/msx-cart-project-template.git msxcart
cd msxcart
cmake -S . -Bbuild
cmake --build build
```

This will create a ROM file called `msx-cartridge-template` in the `build/` directory. You can load this ROM into a MSX emulator. You can change the ROM file name by modifying line 6 of the Makefile.

The resulting ROM file will be a simple 16KB ROM. To change this, modify `src/include/MemoryMap.inc` to fit your needs.

Refer to `CMakeLists.txt` and `src/CMakeLists.txt` to see how to add additional sources and include directories.

After all source files are assembled by wla-z80, a simple Haskell script found in `tools/generatelinkfile.hs` will generate the necessary link file to link the final ROM.

## Example Code

The example code is very simple at the moment. I plan to add something a bit more complex in the future. The code in `src/Main.s` will simply call the `BEEP` (`$00c0`) function from the [MSX BIOS][msxbios].

You can test it with [OpenMSX][openmsx]:

```Bash
openmsx -cart build/msx-cartridge-template
```

After the loading screen, you should hear a short beep sound. After that, the machine will continue with it's normal start up routine.

## Contribution

I'm a total newbie when it comes to MSX development, so any kind of feedback, bug reports, pull requests, etc. is highly appreciated and encouraged!

## Resources and Links

Here's a list of useful links to resources about MSX programming:

* The [MSX Wiki][msxwiki] has tons of informations, down to the memory maps of individual MSX machines.
* [Néstor Soriano aka Konamiman][konamiman] has several repositories relating to MSX and Z80 programming, including this [excellent MSX2 Technical Handbook][msxoverview] how the MSX works.
* A complete list of all the [functions in the MSX BIOS][msxbios].

[msxwiki]: https://www.msx.org/wiki/
[cartwiki]: https://www.msx.org/wiki/Develop_a_program_in_cartridge_ROM
[msxbios]: http://map.grauw.nl/resources/msxbios.php
[konamiman]: https://github.com/Konamiman
[msxoverview]: https://github.com/Konamiman/MSX2-Technical-Handbook
[make]: https://www.gnu.org/software/make/
[cmake]: https://cmake.org
[wladx]: http://www.villehelin.com/wla.html
[ghc]: https://www.haskell.org/ghc/
[openmsx]: http://openmsx.org
